---
title: "[121] The Effect of Controlled Mixing on ROY Polymorphism"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/121
paperurl: 'http://jimlutsko.github.io/files/crystals-12-00577-v2.pdf'
citation: 'Margot Van Nerom, Pierre Gelin, Mehrnaz Hashemiesfahan, Wim De Malsche, James F. Lutsko,Dominique Maes,  and Quentin Galand  &quot;The Effect of Controlled Mixing on ROY Polymorphism&quot;, <i>Crystals</i>, 12, 577 (2022); doi:10.3390/cryst12050577'
---
Abstract
---
We report the investigation of various experimental conditions and their influence on
polymorphism of 5-methyl-2-[(2-nitrophenyl)amino]-3-thiophenecarbonitrile, commonly known as
ROY. These conditions include an in-house-developed microfluidic chip with controlled mixing of
parallel flows. We observed that different ROY concentrations and different solvent to antisolvent
ratios naturally favored different polymorphs. Nonetheless, identical samples prepared with different
mixing methods, such as rotation and magnetic stirring, consistently led to the formation of different
polymorphs. A fourth parameter, namely the confinement of the sample, was also considered.
Untangling all those parameters and their influences on polymorphism called for an experimental
setup allowing all four to be controlled accurately. To that end, we developed a novel customized
microfluidic setup allowing reproducible and controlled mixing conditions. Two parallel flows of
antisolvent and ROY dissolved in solvent were infused into a transparent microchannel. Next, slow
and progressive mixing could be obtained by molecular diffusion. Additionally, the microfluidic
chip was equipped with a piezoceramic element, allowing the implementation of various mixing
rates by acoustic mixing. With this device, we demonstrated the importance of parameters other than
concentration on the polymorphism of ROY.



